The MATLAB scripts in this repository were written as part of a yearlong culminating team project during my senior year at Miami University. They are used to perform 2D navigation, in simulated real time, using radar distance measurements to a stationary target reflector, recorded during experiments conducted by my teammates and myself. During the experiments, we moved our radar system along a linear path in front of the target reflector. All of these programs essentially try to find or approximate the minimum distance to the target reflector, and then use that distance and the other range readings to calculate the radar system's position along the line with respect to each of the readings. The calculations make use of a form of the Pythagorean Theorem. 

All scripts with "Best-Fit" in the name fit parabolas to the data in order to still be fairly accurate when data outliers are present. The other script, ECE_449_ExperimentResults_2_29_2016.m, makes use of an older version of the program that looks for a sign change in the slope of the range readings (i.e. decreasing then increasing) to determine the position for which the radar system was closest to the target. However, a sign change from an erroneous data point taken at a position before the actual minimum would lead this version of the program to incorrectly identify that position as the minimum, and produce very inaccurate results. 

We also attempted to filter the data to remove readings that were invalid or impossible, and showed separate results for the filtered datasets, but unfortunately this did not help improve the quality of the data. In designing these programs, I decided to take medians from the data beforehand in Excel, due to the small number of data points, and then manually enter the medians in arrays defined towards the beginning of each of the scripts. Thus I have also included the raw, formatted, and filtered datasets in separate files for completeness.